[providers] Improve and group providers (#6069)
plone/volto: packages/providers/README.md

# `@plone/providers`

This package contains utility providers for Plone React components.
The main purpose is to provide dependency injection of common required artifacts needed by any app.

> This artifacts are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These artifacts include:
```

- Router related
- Plone Client
- URL handling methods

> [!WARNING]
> This package or app is experimental.
> The community offers no support whatsoever for it.
> Breaking changes may occur without notice.

## `PloneProvider`

It provides all the necessary artifacts that an app can need grouped in a single provider.

```ts
interface PloneProvider {
  ploneClient: InstanceType<typeof PloneClient>;
  queryClient: QueryClient;
  useLocation: () => Location | undefined;
  useParams: (opts?: any) => Record<string, string>;
  navigate: (path: string) => void;
  useHref: (to: string, options?: any) => string;
  flattenToAppURL: (path: string | undefined) => string | undefined;
}
```

> It should be instantated at the top of your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should be instantiated at the top of your app.
```

  // Besides being bad for performance, this also leaks any sensitive data.
  // We use this pattern to ensure that every client gets its own clients
  const [queryClient] = React.useState(
    () =>
      new QueryClient({
        defaultOptions: {
          queries: {
            // With SSR, we usually want to set some default staleTime
            // above 0 to avoid refetching immediately on the client
            staleTime: 60 * 1000,
          },
        },
      }),
  );

  const [ploneClient] = React.useState(() =>
    PloneClient.initialize({
      apiPath: config.settings.apiPath,
    }),
  );

  const router = useRouter();

  return (
    <PloneProvider
      ploneClient={ploneClient}
      queryClient={queryClient}
      // NextJS doesn't have a useLocation hook, so we need to unify this
      // in a custom hook
      useLocation={useLocation}
      navigate={(to) => {
        router.push(to);
      }}
      useParams={useParams}
      useHref={(to) => flattenToAppURL(to)}
      flattenToAppURL={flattenToAppURL}
    >
      {children}
      <ReactQueryDevtools initialIsOpen={false} />
    </PloneProvider>
  );
};

export default Providers;

```

> You can use anywhere in your app by using the hook `usePloneProvider`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use it anywhere in your app by using the hook `usePloneProvider`.
```

```tsx
import { usePloneProvider } from '@plone/providers';

const { ploneClient } = usePloneProvider()
```

> or any other context property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use it in any other context property.
```

```tsx
const { navigate } = usePloneProvider()
```

> ### `PloneClientProvider`

Reviewer: I think this heading should be at the same level as the previous. Not sure. Your call.

```suggestion
## `PloneClientProvider`
```

`PloneProvider` in a group of other smaller providers.

> In case you need them separatedly, you can also instantiate and use them standalone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also instantiate and use them as standalone providers.
```

> However, only do this is the framework has some limitation on using the bulk `PloneClientProvider`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you should do this only if the framework has some limitation on using the bulk `PloneClientProvider`.

The following snippets show its usage.
First, instantiate the provider.
```

```ts
export type PloneClientProviderProps = {
  client: InstanceType<typeof PloneClient>;
  queryClient: QueryClient;
  children?: React.ReactNode;
};
```

> and the related hook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, use its related hook through the following example.
```

```tsx
import { usePloneClient } from '@plone/providers';

const client = usePloneClient()
```

> or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the following hook.
```

Author: in this case, it's another usage use case, not that it's alternative.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what to write for this section. I have a hard time translating the code to narrative text. It sounds like the pattern is the following.

````
The following snippets show two use cases.

You can instantiate the provider with its hook.

```ts
// instantiation
export type PloneClientProviderProps = {
  client: InstanceType<typeof PloneClient>;
  queryClient: QueryClient;
  children?: React.ReactNode;
};

// its related hook
import { usePloneClient } from '@plone/providers';
const client = usePloneClient()
```
````

```tsx
const { getContentQuery } = usePloneClient()
```

> ### `AppRouterProvider`

Reviewer: Not sure whether this heading level is correct or not. Your call.

```suggestion
## `AppRouterProvider`
```

This provider is included also in `PloneProvider`.

> In case you need it separatedly, you can also instantiate and use it standalone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also instantiate and use it as a standalone provider.
```

> However, only do this is the framework has some limitation on using the bulk `PloneClientProvider`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you should do this only if the framework has some limitation on using the bulk `PloneClientProvider`.

The following code example shows its usage.
```

```ts
interface AppRouterProps {
  useLocation: () => Location | undefined;
  useParams: (opts?: any) => Record<string, string>;
  navigate: (path: string) => void;
  useHref?: (to: string, options?: any) => string;
  flattenToAppURL: (path: string | undefined) => string | undefined;
  children: ReactNode;
}
```

> and the related hook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows its related hook.
```
